# Lab 7: Image differences and their uses 

## Objective: 
The objective of this lab is: 
To create a digital image processing pipeline to apply unsharp masking and high-boost filtering to increase sharpness of image. 
To create various spatial differentiation kernels and apply them on images. 
Notice how these kernels can be used to create a point or edge detector. 

## Theory: 
Unsharp masking and high-boosting: 
Unsharp masking is a simple process in which a smooth version of original image is added with a constant value (commonly referred to as weight) to increase sharpening of blurry images. Whole process of unsharp masking can be written compactly as: 
Figure 1. Unsharp masking pipeline 
Where *dashed_f(x,y)* is blurred image which can be generated by applying any low pass filter and weight constant k can be used to control sharpness. 
Figure 2: Mechanism behind Un-sharp masking 

 
Point and Edge detectors using image differentiation: 
Second order partial derivatives are very handy tool to detect both points and lines. Although, there exists various sophisticated techniques (such as Hough transform) which can be used to perform a robust line detection. Our goal for this lab is to use image derivatives to detect points and lines. 

Once, Laplacian response (2D in this case) of input image is recorded, a threshold value can be used to detect small abrupt changes in the input image. 
NOTE: This is equivalent of applying linear filtering and not calculation of magnitude of gradients! (they will be explored in next lab) 

## Lab Tasks: 
### Task 1: 
1. Load “moon.tif” and apply Unsharp masking and high-boost filtering onto it. 
2. Record your findings with various weight values. 
3. By varying smoothing kernel, sigma_value and filter type (i.e. box, gaussian, median) analyze overall effect. 

### Task 2: 
1. Load “blade.tif” and create a laplacian kernel. 
2. Apply the kernel onto image and try to detect the dust particle on the blade as shown in figure 5. 
3. Create a mask for that localized dust particle and remove some pixels around that particle from the original image. 

### Task 3: 
1. Load “building.tif” and “wirebond.tif” and apply line detector kernels and visualize how their responses changes with direction of kernel. 
2. Make and apply all kircsh kernels and record your outputs. 
